*Attachment component for CakePHP* handles file uploads to the file system. If
it's an image file, it creates thumbnail copies in
@/app/webroot/attachments/photos/{required_sizes}@ folder; while other files
are stored in @/app/webroot/attachments/files@.

I've started it from the public copy at
"@http://sabbour.wordpress.com/2008/07/18/enhanced-image-upload-component-for-cakephp-12/@":http://sabbour.wordpress.com/2008/07/18/enhanced-image-upload-component-for-cakephp-12/
to have a standard way of uploading files to CakePHP projects.

h3. Requirements

# PHP GD library installed and enabled.
# @/app/webroot/attachments/@ must be writable by the web server.

h3. Installation

# Copy @attachment.php@ to @/app/controllers/components/@
# Add component to your controller: @var $components = array('Attachment');@
# Add DB columns {prefix}_file_path, {prefix}_file_name, {prefix}_file_size and {prefix}_content_type to the model

h3. Model setup

We'll asume a Model named 'Pet' for a sample installation. The code relies on four columns in the Model table; 

@pet_file_path, pet_file_name, pet_file_size@ and @pet_content_type@

Models with multi-word names should have each word seperated by underscores. For example, the model "GalleryPhoto" would use the table "gallery_photos" and the following fields;

@gallery_photo_file_path, gallery_photo_file_name, gallery_photo_file_size@ and @gallery_photo_content_type@

These fields are automagically updated when you call @save()@ on the @$this->data@ array

h3. View setup

@<?= $this->Form->create('Pet', array('type' => 'file'));@
@<?= $this->Form->input('pet' , array('type' => 'file')); ?>@
@<?= $this->Form->end('Save my pooch'); ?>@

The input 'pet' (which is needs to be type 'file' of course) is the lower case model-name, multi-word model names seperated by underscores.

h3. Controller setup

Configuration options (default values between parentheses);

* @files_dir@: Where to save the files (inside @/app/webroot/attachments/@) (@photos@).
* @rm_tmp_file@: Remove temporal image after resizing (@false@).
* @allow_non_image_files@, self descriptive ;-) (@true@).
* @default_col@: Column prefix for file related data (lowercase modelname, words seperated by underscores).
* @images_size@: Array of different file sizes required by your app. Each
  element is itself an array, like:
    @'folder_name' => array($width, $height, $crop)@.
  You may define only width or height, and the image will scale appropriately.

You can override the default configuration passing an array of options while
including the component, like;

@var $components = array('Attachment' => array(
	'files_dir' => 'pets',
	'images_size' => array(
		'avatar'  => array(75, 75, true)
	)
));@

h4. upload($data)

* @$data@: raw data from form

Simply call the following on the form data;

@$this->Attachment->upload($this->data['Pet']);@

You may choose different column prefixes than the model name, as long as you specify it on the upload method, like so:

@$this->Attachment->upload($this->data['Pet'], 'dog');@

h4. thumbnail($data, $upload_dir, $maxw, $maxh, $crop = 'resize')

* @data@: image data array
* @upload_dir@: where to save the file (inside @attachments/files_dir@)
* @maxw/maxh@: maximum width/height for resizing images
* @crop@: Crop image? (one of @resize@, @resizeCrop@ or @crop@)

h4. delete_files($filename)

* @filename@: file-to-delete name

h3. Access files after they are saved

For images: @<?= $this->Html->image('/attachments/files_dir/{size}/' . $data['Pet']['pet_file_path']); ?>@
For files:  @<?= $this->Html->link('Grab file', '/attachments/files_dir/' . $data['Pet']['pet_file_path']); ?>@

h3. Validation

You may wish to validate from the model. e.g;

@var $validate = array(@
		@'pet_file_size' => array(@
			@'rule' => array('maxLength', 6),@
			@'message' => 'Image size is waaaaaayyy too big. Try resizing first'@
			@)@
	 @);@

h3. Code for showing validation errors in the view

@if(isset($this->Form->validationErrors)) {@
  @foreach ($this->Form->validationErrors as $model => $columns) {@
    @foreach ($columns as $err_msg) {@
      @echo $this->Html->div('error-message', $err_msg);@
    @}@
  @}@
@}@

Only for the file input:

@if (isset($this->Form->validationErrors['Pet']['pet_file_name'])) {@
	@echo $this->Html->div('error-message', $this->Form->validationErrors['Pet']['pet_file_name']);@
@}@




